ok let's begin I like most of us I'm
dialed in remotely working from home so
I hope all the text setup works really
well but let's get after it this will be
my first virtual remote work from home
sastra summit presentation but I've been
a part of sastra since the beginning I'm
really excited to be here today my name
is Daniel Jade I'm the founder and CEO
at green house green house as a hiring
software company our mission is to help
every company to become great at hiring
and as entrepreneur and as a founder
I've had to learn very personally
through my own experiences how critical
talent is especially in a new
organization and now we only have about
20 minutes or so together today I'm
planning to share with you our talent
maker framework for how being great at
hiring will set you apart as a leader
I'll leave time for some questions so
please be ready go ahead and type them
into the Q&A and we'll get to those
towards the end now as an early-stage
startup you're trying to build something
that's gonna survive the cradle and
actually grow big and strong and I
ultimately have the ability to change
the world and however you're imagining
it and that all starts here and the
early is of a company you're building
the foundation with each new hire and we
don't know the numbers the fewer than
half of seed stage companies will ever
make it to a series a and so that's a
very challenging a very daunting
statistic and and and so every hire
matters all the all of them much more
but given the face of those daunting
statistics can we just throw up our
hands are we doing should we all just
hang up and curl up in a ball no it
turns out that as an early-stage startup
you have certain advantages that bigger
more established companies don't have
you care more you can be more creative
you can take more risks and you can also
offer people more interesting
opportunities more growth more potential
to set their own course then they can in
a big company where they kind of to come
in and and sit in a box and sort of do
their job and so you aren't only at a
disadvantage you just have a different
set of advantages to offer as compared
to bigger and more established companies
I've been in those shoes before when I
started my last company Lab
9 in New York City I ran recruiting
there we were trying to hire high-end
technical talent on Wall Street and of
course every big investment bank and
Wall Street firm was trying to hire
people that could that could succeed in
that environment and so we really had to
think outside the box and do things very
differently and consider the fact that
we also had a very different set of
things to offer and so rather than do
what goldman sachs did and try to go to
harvard and hire all the top grads there
you know we wanted to try to look in
places that the big banks weren't
looking we wanted to try to look for
people but the big banks just weren't
looking at people that maybe didn't
graduate from the right schools
according to their formula or people
that didn't look like they belong to on
Wall Street and then we thought if we
could make better decisions about people
and do it faster we could give ourselves
a big advantage and so these are all the
kinds of things as a start-up that you
can do that a big company can't or
frankly just won't and so let's talk
about how to get there what that really
looks like I think it is this people
think hiring is kind of a black box you
know some specifics I have actions or
you know a checklist that you do by the
recruiting person and magically your new
hire comes out but what I've learned and
what I've seen working with thousands of
organizations and leaders around the
world is that recruiting works best when
everyone is involved and especially when
the leaders are highly engaged now
there's a specific set of behaviors that
I've seen in leaders whose companies are
great at hiring talent and it's really
not a black box or some secret process
that they have that you don't there's
people who prioritize hiring and they
know the value of bringing great people
into their teams and so understanding
that formula and unpacking what they do
that's what we've been trying to do at
Green House and we call those people
talent makers talent makers have a
certain mindset and they see themselves
in three specific roles that relate to
everyone in the organization and outside
who will be impacted by hiring and so
I'll talk you through each of those
three roles right now and share just a
few tips about how you can also become
more of a talent maker and so the first
way that a talent maker works
differently than others is
as a leader and we define a talent
leader as a person who builds and leads
a culture of hiring right now you might
be preparing to make your first hire
ramping up to do the hiring push or or
hire your next set of people and the
leadership role may feel obvious to you
as a founder cuz you're just a small
team now so of course you're gonna
engage in hiring directly the critical
part is that you're laying the
foundation for a culture of hiring
throughout your company leaders are
engaged everyone they will work with
starts to see hiring as really a
privilege and as a top priority when
they do that then everybody in the
company starts to focus on winning for
great talent and so an example of that
would be an Operations leader that I met
with and this person told me that they
hold a weekly meeting with their
recruiting partner and anyone on the
recruiting team hiring for an open role
and the meeting so that every hiring
manager can report on their progress and
their roadblocks and they can address
and immediately not delay in hiring and
new managers were often surprised at the
accountability that they were being held
to you for hiring and not the recruiter
but that level of accountability in that
level of hands-on involvement by leaders
in bringing in talent keeps hiring
moving and make sure that the company
overall focus is not bringing in high
quality talents as one of its true
high priority initiatives at all times
so it's a bunch of different ways that
you can lead the charge on hiring and
set it as a priority for your entire
organization from a get-go and so you
have to continue to be able to signal
that to your team that talent is always
gonna be a key focus okay now being a
leader within your own team that's not
enough you also need to think about the
candidates and the prospects that are
gonna be coming in contact with your
organization the talent itself and so
the second role of a talent maker is to
act like a magnet for talent attracting
the right people into the organization
and for an organization to become great
at hiring the leaders need to become
talent magnets so a few quick stories if
that looks like our CTO has a standing
meeting at a restaurant near our office
where he keeps touch in touch with
promising engineers and as we've moved
to an online world
he's similarly available online to me
with candidates and prospects of all
types I researched an organization who
was really doing great at sales hiring
and the head of sales told me that she
had started a blog wrote weekly about
sales topics and things were going on
within their department and within just
a few months of starting that blog she
made three awesome hires just from
people reading her blog getting excited
about their work and about the company's
culture and so in short a talent magnet
is a leader who personally and very
actively is involved with candidates and
with prospects ok so if you're a talent
leader building and leading a culture of
hiring and if you're acting as a talent
magnet spending your own time trying to
land talent there's still one missing
piece I think about your partners in the
process if you haven't in-house for
career or people-eater what is your
relationship to them now that brings me
to the third and maybe the most critical
thing to do when you're becoming a
talent maker which is to act as a talent
partner a talent partner who empowers
those driving their recruiting progress
process to do their best work and so it
can be easy not to think of recruiting
as a separate function when you're just
starting out and that approach actually
can work pretty well in the early days
at Greenhouse when we first founded a
company you know I was the first
recruiter and so you know I didn't have
a typical HR background by prioritized
finding great people I knew we would
find folks that were attracted to our
great mission and I could make sure they
had a great experience with us but then
we started bringing in leaders in the
people department who were themselves
entrepreneurial and visionary they had
backgrounds in starting businesses and
in and in management consulting not
necessarily in just in recruiting our HR
and so we didn't have people that had
traditional backgrounds in recruiting
but rather we thought they can learn
those skills what aren't recruiting
leaders all shared there's a commitment
to running recruiting well as a business
function and is a great partner in the
hiring process and so for recruiting to
run optimally the
business needs to be focused on ensuring
that everyone involved has the right
tools they have the right resources they
have the right information to make a
great hire and that means things like
interviewers being briefed on the roles
that they're interviewing for having a
set of clear questions that they need to
ask having clarity throughout the
company on the process that we're
running in the measures that we're using
to tell if we're succeeding or not and
so that way when it comes time to make
hiring decisions everyone has the
necessary information right there leads
to a better candidate experience and
better hiring outcomes one great story
that I always love to tell is of our
internal recruiting partner Arianna who
came to an all-hands attended meetings
within our engineering team talked to
interviewers checked on metrics and sit
with the team that they're hiring for so
that they really know exactly what's
going on within the organization and the
business that they're hiring for us they
can tell the story and really
communicate well with candidates and
prospects and so you can see that in
order to be really great at hiring you
also need to be a curve a talent partner
you need to invite that partnership from
the recruiting professionals so they can
do their best work okay so maybe they
sum it all up but giving away the secret
formula here it's not a black box it's
just some specific things you can think
about as a leader in order to become
real talent maker and talent making
means making recruiting your priority as
a leader it's your role to hire a great
talent
you can't just be hands-off with it you
can't put it on someone else need to own
it and then you need to build a team or
everyone else your recruiters your
business department your your functional
departments and leaders throughout the
organization everywhere also need to
feel the same ownership it's really
exciting to see that you know you're all
are doing it here there's almost 400
people in this webinar and that
commitment it's a talent making to being
proactive to taking time to upskill
yourself on this critical topic is
incredibly exciting to me and really
heartening because I don't know what the
rest of you but I didn't go to HR school
and maybe you didn't either but as an
entrepreneur you can get those skills in
sessions like this and through your own
commitment and dedication to
taking ownership over hiring yourself
what I've seen over and over and over
again throughout my career and in
running green house is hiring is a core
activity of leadership getting hiring
right creates the difference between
those companies who win and everyone
else if there's one thing I want to
leave you with it's that you never say
recruiting as someone else's job it's
your job okay so I've given you the
basics there's a ton to dive into this
is a really rich topic so I'd love to
open up the floor now at the minutes we
have left to take a few questions if you
go into the Q&A I'll be able to see them
and I can take questions for about the
next five minutes or so okay I'm just
gonna see the first question here from
not gonna start crowds the name SAS
start up here seed stage 8 people on
board when should a company consider
hiring their first specialized recruiter
any common practices or advice it's a
fantastic question I think most
companies they they can get away with
making a handful of hires without having
a dedicated recruiter at the point where
hiring becomes sort of a regular
activity that you're expecting to do
continuously it often makes them move
sense then to start hiring a specialized
recruiter so if you're gonna hire maybe
one or two people a month month in and
month out that's probably about the
minimum period of time where you know
that it'll be worth your time to have a
dedicated recruiter if you're gonna hire
two or three people and then stop or
handful people on that stop it may not
be worth bringing out a full-time person
but if you can foresee that you know
this month you're hiring a couple
engineers next month the marketing
person salespeople after that and it's
gonna become a regular part of the
business
that's about the time when having a
dedicated recruiter can really pay off
leveraging your time as a founder to
free up on doing the business stuff and
then coming in contact with candidates
where you can have the most impact in
the talent maker way that we talked
about
next question from Alex what channels
did you use in your early stages to
learn about the buyer persona for an HR
focus be to be offering okay so that's
about crete house the company i think
for any entrepreneur this is this is you
know a good advice is you've got to be
in
direct contact with customers so we
found the communities where our
customers were going to be and we worked
with them we we asked questions we
showed them prototypes we involve them
in design sessions and then ultimately
after like a lot of you know yes that
type of involvement whether the rubber
hits the road is are they gonna buy the
thing and so I took the product on the
road myself personally i sat with
customers and I said hey like what would
you pay for this and what are the real
obstacles getting you by it until you
really try to sell something it's hard
to know what the market is really gonna
think a great question here how do you
get buy-in from leaders to become
advocates of hiring and care more to
help it's a great question
I think often we see you know there's
pockets of kind of leadership here I
think it's a few things you can do one
as I mentioned you can set the example I
mean leading by example is a great way
to set the agenda so as a founder what
do you talk about it all hands well it
goes in your board deck what are the
company ok ours if those things start to
include talent and you start to hold
other people accountable to those things
then you can bring people along so it's
not just what you say but following it
up with what you do the other is you
know your company may consists of many
leaders and if some are buying in more
than others you can start to draw the
examples out of the others who are
buying in and then ones who aren't you
know you can serve highlight say hey you
know let's see that this group is not as
involved and hiring as that group what's
going on you can sort of talk them
through that maybe one last story that
I'll share on that topic is Patti McCord
who ran people at Netflix famously
through their period of hyper growth or
the early days told the story that I'll
summarize that one of their business
units had been sort of not doing their
part not being a talent maker as it were
by sort of trying to offload all the
work onto the recruiting team and saying
hey I told you I need a salesperson send
me candidates what's your problem
[Music]
and out of your part then you're on your
own I can't help you so you can use our
recruiting capability and you can use a
recruiting team but you need to do your
part if you're going to take advantage
of that if you don't need to take
advantage of recruiters you're on your
own to fill your own jobs and so you can
sort of lend them your internal
resources with the explicit
understanding or agreement that they
need to that they pull their weight and
act like a talent maker themselves okay
I think we probably have time for one
more question and they're scrolling by
really quickly which I'm loving this and
we'll definitely try to get to some of
these offline later what considerations
if any do you find that the shifter
remote work has or will have on hiring
and what a great question so timely
let's talk about this the other day I
think number one is recruiting is
inherently a very collaborative process
if you think about all the work that has
to go into defining what are the needs
for this role and dog where are we going
to look for these candidates and hey
what did you think about this can deter
that and what are our criteria all those
things often happen in groups of people
and an online world those sort of
interactions aren't going to necessarily
happen in the hallway or over the lunch
table so you need to build in space and
time in a process to do that in a much
more structured way you need to
collaborate around a document or a
spreadsheet or some template it actually
outlines what are the specific criterion
that people can interact that way I
think the other is you need to
understand that you know I'm sitting
here and the house of my in-laws in a
bedroom with an iffy internet connection
I think most candidates we're gonna come
across in this world are gonna have
similar type of circumstance that
they're under and so you have to you're
really smart about what are the things
that you may be biased towards when you
look at a candidate oh they're
unprofessional their hair isn't brushed
or bad interconnection versus what
really matters and what are the things
that you're gonna do to test the skills
and criteria that you really care about
versus things that may just be bias so
that would be some things that I can
foresee being different this is also new
that I'm as interested as everyone and
how those things are going to be change
in the days and weeks ahead to nineteen
I'm gonna try to get to one more
question what else is there what's the
hardest part of hiring process to scale
you know in today's world candidates
have so many opportunities to meet with
so many different companies that giving
them a great experience is really really
critical and getting that right is
really hard because that experience is
often done one to one in either a
physical room or on a phone call or on a
zoom and usually most in a new artists
aren't that motivated they don't have a
lot of training they don't only know how
to do a great interview and so HR tends
to sort of throw that over the wall and
say meet this candidate Tony you think
and I that gets really hard people may
ask you legal questions they may insult
the candidate they may be distracted um
giving a great candidate experience in a
scaled way is a real challenge and I
think bringing a lot more structure and
planning to the process is the best way
I know of to try to overcome that and
really help to scale giving a great
experience but it's certainly something
that's critical and helps your company
stand out some great questions I'm gonna
just keep answering them until they shut
me off I guess I'll check out one here
on the cot on the topic of talent
magnets what are other examples of good
way to do that so I've mentioned the
idea of having you know a standing spot
where you're meeting with people you
know a great oral or blogging I think a
great talent magnet activity is for
senior people to have a hands-on role in
the closing or pre closing conversation
with top talent so if you get a call
from a recruiter or if you get a call
from a CEO or CTO it's a very different
type of conversation um by the way that
goes for outreach as well we often have
our senior leaders reach out initially
to candidates and you know most people
are much more likely to open an email
from me as a CEO versus they are from my
head of recruiting or from one of my
recruiters and so a talent magnet can
play a role in every step of the funnel
both reaching out to candidates helping
to close them gave them great experience
along the way as well you know you have
time for like one last question and
we'll send you the other
questions that you didn't get to today
as well fantastic thank you so much I'll
take a last question and then as you can
see we've got a talent makers community
on LinkedIn if you search screen out
talent makers joining our community
we'll have lots of can you interact and
lots of great content on these topics
I'm scrolling down and hiring right what
would you say to an HR manager who says
that they have a time to fill KPI to
meet you know the topic of KPIs is a
challenging one in any recruiting
conversation and I think it's important
not to mistake some KPIs or Health
metrics from the actual goal and so it's
good to have time to hire KPIs it's good
to know how long things take to do and
to measure those things and talk about
trends but the goal is to build the
right winning company the goal is not to
have a short time between an applicant
and a person in the chair anyone can do
that
so I think the conversation is really
around great you've got that KPI what
does that KPI mean what can it do for us
and what can't it do for us and
therefore how do we have a more holistic
conversation about what actually we're
trying to do it all and I think often HR
can kind of get crammed down into this
being on the back foot and say you've
got these numbers that's how you measure
that's how you're paid if these numbers
don't care of anything else and so they
can react by sniffing like look it's not
my job to hire great people or winning
company or doing these other things I'm
just trying to make this number in the
spreadsheet look like it's supposed to
so I get paid I think that's a really
dangerous dynamic so moving it more into
the concept of what's the purpose of
that KPI and how does it fit into the
overall business so sort of what I would
take it yeah that's a good point to end
on thank you so much for sharing your
insights I know hiring has been like the
question that's come up in all of ours
today and all of our sessions so thank
you for taking the time to do deep dive
we'll definitely send everybody the
recording will send Daniel's team the
question so that his team can follow up
with you thanks again for watching and
we're gonna go to our next session with
charge me so we're gonna going from
hiring to growth thanks again Daniel
stay safe to unity
[Music]